## ‘There’s No Going Back’. Roxie’s IPhone®: An Object Ethnography ##
In many of the countries of the developed world,  young people live in  a  web of what has been described as‘polymedia’. Madianou and Miller (2012) suggest this term  as  a  descriptor  forthe  emergent  communicative  environment  comprised  of  a “plethora  of  internet-and  mobile  phone  based  platforms  such  as  email,  instant messaging  (IM),  social  networking  sites  (SNS)  and  webcamvia  voice  over internet protocol (VOIP)” (p. 1). For  many  people,  there  are  now  numerous  ways  to  access and  create  messages.
Madianou  and  Miller  rightly  point  out  that contemporary communication takes place across and between a range of platforms and technologies, with  individuals  moving  between  them  to  fulfil  a  range of  different  social  purposes. Email, with  its  asynchronous  print-focused  nature for  example  is  used  for  different purposes and  with  different  outcomes than  a  phone  call  or  a facebookmessage. Madianou and Miller (2012) further note,  the choice of which technology with which to  create different  forms  of textis 
dependent  on  the  social  context  of  use  andthe affordances of  the  particular artefact.  Many  young  people,  including  those  that  took part  in  the  study  underpinning  this  paper,  have  an  array  of  media from  which  to choose  when  creating  and  accessing  text,  however  the  focus  of  this  study  has  been their  relationship  with  mobile  phones.  Taking  this  into  account,  thispaper takes  as  a specific focusone of the artefacts that constitute this polymedia web, specifically the textual practices that follow 
for one young personcalled Roxie.Thepaper is  positioned  in  the  new  literacy  studies  with  its depictions  of socially  oriented  and  indexicalliteracy  practices,  (Street,1985),  multiliteracies  and multimodality (Cope &Kalantzis,2000; Kress 2003; New London Group 1996), and home  and  community  language  and  literacy  practices  (Brice-Heath  1983;  Gregory, Long  &  Volk,2004; Marsh  2006; Pahl  &  Rowsell  2010).  From  this  perspectiveliteracy practices,including those associated with digital technologies,are developedand deployed 
in socially situated contexts. In order to provide a lens for understanding the  physicality  of  the iPhone®,it  also  draws  from Miller’s  work in material  studiesLanguage and Literacy Volume 14, Issue 2, Special Issue 2012Page 28(Miller,2008,   2009) and the   emerging   field   of postphenomenology(Verbeek,2005,2006). From  differing  fields,  theseapproaches  arguethat  an artefactand  the individuals who make  use  of  it co-construct lived  experience  through  their  everyday interactions.  This  meansthat  as  Miller  (2009)  argues, the ‘stuff’ 
of  everyday  life matters. The  concept  of  object  ethnographies  borrows  from  Miller’s  views  of  the centrality  of  ‘stuff’  to  the  shaping  of  individuals  and  their  lives  (1997,2009)  but  it situates  this  within  broader  frames. Object  ethnographies  begin  with  the artefact. These artefactual  analyses  are  then  used  as  “platforms  for  commentary  on  issues  of identity,  meaning,  structure,  social  critique,  materiality”  (Fowles,2006)that  draw from  Miller's  interest  in  the  centrality  of  'stuff’  (1997,  2009),  Appadurai’s 
(1986) descriptions  of  the  ‘social  biography’  of  things,  and  Barthes’understanding  of  the power  of  mythology  to  transform  an  object  into  the  sign  of  a  universal  value  (Allen 2003;Barthes 1972). This  multi-levelled  framing  allows  an artefactto  be  considered  as  a  material object with a biography  or social history of its own as well as a biographical journal with  the  user/s  who  interact  with  it,  and  then  works  to  situatethis  biography  within larger  cultural,  technological  and  political  contexts.  Object  ethnographies, 
therefore, are  nested  analyses  that  build  a  rich  analysis  of  the  interaction  between artefactand user in the creation and experience of the everyday. This framing has the potential to enable  the  examination  of  an artefactmaterial  object  with  a  biography  or  social history  that  embeds  it  in  the  local,  but  also  allows  it  to  be  positioned  within  broader social  and  cultural  flows  or  narratives. In Madianouand Miller’s  terms,  this  frameallows the examination of one highly valued entry point into the polymedia context in which young 
people in the global north increasingly operate.In relation to this paper, this  framing also allows  an  examination  of  the artefactitself and a simultaneous understanding that the choice of mobile phone is linked to context and to the cultural and social power of phones in contemporary youth culture.Given the ubiquity of3G-enabledmobile phonesin the everyday lives of young people,it is fitting to attempt to understand the complex nature of the relationships that develop andthe ways in which these artefacts  both  reflect  and  play  a  role  in  the  changing  sociocultural
and  textual landscapes  that  many  of  us  now  traverse  on  a  daily  basis.A  tiered  object  analysis allows us to attempt this analytic task.The first level of analysis concerns itself with what can be ‘read’ in relation to the  intentions  and  expectations  of  the  designers  of  these  objects.  In  effect,  this  level takes  as  its  focus  the  ‘script’  embedded  in  the artefactduring  the  design  process (Akrich 1992; Verbeek 2005). Akrich argues that every artefactcontains a message or instructional  manual  from  its  maker  that  outlines  the artefact’s  intended  
use  and meaning and it is this script that is read and interpreted by the user. The second level focuses  on  the  social life of objects, taking up Appadurai’s (1986) point that objects have a social biography. From Verbeek (2005, 2006) we understand this to mean that artefacts have an agency or intentionality, but also that they have an individual history that is significant for the people that make use of them. The intentionality, or agency, of  each artefactbecomes  entwined  overtime  with  its  social  history.  The  final  level draws   from   Barthes’(1972) view   of   objects   as 
players   in   the   building   and maintenance of social andcultural myth. Consequently, my use of object ethnographyin this paper begins from the premise that artefacts matter. Everyday objects embody the  values  and  worldviews  of  designers  and  the  corporations  that  employ  them;however,   in   the   everyday   lives   of users   they   are   taken   up   and   redesigned. Consequently,  theobject  ethnography  approach  adopted  in  this  paper  works across
Language and Literacy               Volume 14, Issue 2, Special Issue 2012Page 29three tiers:(i) the mobile phone is examined as an artefactwith particular scripts and affordances;  (ii)  the  ‘social  biography’  of  the  individual  phone  both  official  and unofficialis  mapped;  and  (iii),  the  broader  narratives in  which  the artefactis manufactured and utilized is described.To  build  the  second  level  of  analysis–the  social  biography  of  the  artefact -thepaperdraws  from a  small-scalequalitative project  interested  in  the3G-enabledmobile phone artefacts of young people
aged from 12 to 17 years of age. The project aims to examine3G-enabledphones as the ‘stuff’ of individual participant’s everyday life. Ultimately  the  project  seeks  to  trace  the  local-global  interactions  played  out  via this  particular  technological artefactand  its  broader  mythologyusing  the  framing provided by an object ethnography.To this end, the project’s design includesthe use of  semi-structured  interviews  and  survey  questionnairesacross  a  total  of  50  young people. The  use  of  interviews  was  designed  to  capture  the  role  of  this artefactin  the ways in
which participantsconstruct and perceive their lives.The object ethnography is  interested  in  consideration  of  the  role  of  objects  in  the  lives  of  individuals. Therefore,  data  in  the  form  of  a  participant  interview  has  been  included  to  elicit  the social  biography  of  the specific  artefact. This individual is Roxie. Roxie’s interview revealed her strong relationship with her 3G-enabled mobile phone. The fact that this was  an iPhone®has  impacted  the  direction  of  the first  tier  of analysis  constructed here.  If  she  had  reported  her  experience  and  perceptions 
of  her  Blackberry  orher Samsung,   the   details   of   thatanalysiswould   be   quite   different:   eachobject ethnography begins with the objectrather than the person using it. The interview with Roxie exploredthe history of her relationship with the phone and the meaning of this particular object in her everyday life. Inconcert withthe object ethnographyoutlined above,the paper seeks to nest this experience with this artefactwithin broader cultural patterns. As  a  result,  thepaper  beginswith  an  examination  of  the  iPhone®as  an artefact and then moves to unpack its social biography. Roxie’s
experiences with her phone  form  part  of  this  biography.  The  paper  then  moves  to  consider  the  broader cultural  narratives  in  which  the  artefact  and  Roxie  interact  with  each  other  before considering the implications of the analysis for practices with text.
url:https://journals.library.ualberta.ca/langandlit/index.php/langandlit/article/view/18010/14224
